# Leetcode Problem 100-199

# [100. Same Tree](./100_sameTree.md) 🌟

### Intuitive recursive solution

-   self explanatory

### Recursive to iterative using queue

---

# [101. Symmetric Tree](./101_symmetricTree.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time solution

-   we will traverse left and right subtrees of the root with the same type of traversal.
-   we compare the value of left with right or value of right with left , if they are not equal we return false.
-   we recurse for left's left with right's right and left's right with right's left.

### O(N) Time, using 2 queue, iterative solution

-   Same recursive solution can be converted to iterative solution by using queue.
-   Remember while using 2 queue we push `left->left,left->right` in 1st queue and `right->right,right->left` in 2nd queue.

### O(N) Time, using 1 queue, iterative solution

-   We can use 1 queue instead of 2.
-   remember that while using 1 queue we do `left->left,right->right,left->right,right->left.`

---

# [102. Binary Tree Level Order Traversal](./102_btLevelOrderTraversal.md) 🌟🌟

### O(N) Time and O(N) Space

-   Create an empty queue q.
-   Push the root node of tree to q.
-   Loop while the queue is not empty:
    -   get all the elements of q.
    -   push their left and right nodes in the queue.
    -   push_back these elements in the vector.
    -   pus_back this vector in main 2d vector.
-   return 2d vector.

---

# [103. Binary Tree Zigzag Level Order Traversal](./103_btZigzagLevelOrderTraversal.md) 🌟🌟

### This question is in continuation with **A general approach to level order traversal questions** series.

**Prerequisites:**

1. [Binary tree level order traversal](./102_btLevelOrderTraversal.md)
2. [Binary tree level order traversal - II](./107_btLevelOrderTraversalII.md)

### Recursive solution

-   Here is just one change, if level is odd we insert value at the beginning of vector, otherwise at the end.

### Iterative solution

-   Same code, just reversed the current level vector if result vector has odd size.
-   Reason for above operation: since in the example we can observe every even vector is reversed, we have to reverse the even level vector, so at that time res vector has odd size.

### Without reverse, insert at front if odd (Fastest)

-   Here, just like we did in Q107, we just insert at the beginning of vector if res vector size is odd(i.e. currLevel is even).

---

# [104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree](./104_maxDepthBinaryTree.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(H) Space,(DFS) More proffered than iterative

-   Worst case, if tree is skewed then it will take **O(N)** else **O(h)** space, where h is the height of the tree.

-   If root is null then return 0.
-   else return 1 + maximum depth of(left subtree, right subtree)

### O(N) Time and O(N) Space (BFS), using level order traversal

-   Same like level order traversal, but we need to keep track of the depth.

---

# [106. Construct Binary Tree from Inorder and Postorder Traversal](./106_constructBinaryTreeFromInorderAndPostorderTraversal.md) 🌟🌟

### MUST READ

-   [[C++] EASY Intuitive Sol || Clean Recursive Code w/ Explanation || T.C:O(N)](<https://leetcode.com/problems/construct-binary-tree-from-inorder-and-postorder-traversal/discuss/1588934/C%2B%2B-EASY-Intuitive-Sol-oror-Clean-Recursive-Code-w-Explanation-oror-T.C%3AO(N)>)

---

# [107. Binary Tree Level Order Traversal II](./107_btLevelOrderTraversalII.md) 🌟🌟

### Recursive solution

-   The code is same as [level-order-traversal](./102_btLevelOrderTraversal.md), just 2 modifications.
    1. We have to insert New vector to the beginning of the result vector.
    2. We have to insert values at `res.size() - 1 - level` position.

### Iterative solution

-   It is also same as [level-order-traversal](./102_btLevelOrderTraversal.md), just we return the reverse of the result vector.

### Iterative Solution without reverse

-   If you don't want to reverse the vector, you can insert new level directly to the beginning of the result vector.
-   But as compared to previous solution, this solution is takes more time to execute.

---

# [112. Path Sum](./112_pathSum.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time , recursive

-   if root is null return false
-   if roots left and right both are null return `root->val==targetSum`.
-   else recursively find `targetSum - root->val` in left and right subtree.

### O(N) Time , iterative

**soon...**

<!-- TODO: iterative solution -->

---

# [116. Populating Next Right Pointers in Each Node](./116_populatingNextRightPointer.md) 🌟🌟

### This question is in continuation with **A general approach to level order traversal questions** series.

**Previous Questions**

1. [Binary tree level order traversal](./102_btLevelOrderTraversal.md)
2. [Binary tree level order traversal - II](./107_btLevelOrderTraversalII.md)
3. [Binary tree zig-zag level order traversal](./103_btZigzagLevelOrderTraversal.md)
4. [Average of levels](637_averageOfLevels.md)
5. [Binary tree right side view](./199_binaryTreeRightSideView.md)
6. [largest value in each tree row](./515_findLargestValueInEachTreeRow.md)

-   Next 2 solutions are part of the series other are not.

### Recursive Solution

-   self explanatory

### Iterative Solution

-   Self explanatory

### O(N) Time and O(N) space

-   Using level order traversal technique and NULL.
-   if current node is null and q is not empty, then push NULL into q.
-   else set current node's next to q's front.
-   push left and right in the queue , if they are not NULL.

### O(N) Time and O(1) space

-   level order traversal with root and its child,just dry run once you get the idea.

---

# [118. Pascal's Triangle](./118_pascalsTriangle.md) 🌟

### Straightforward solution

#### We can find any element(a[i][j]) in O(1) time using the formula (r-1)C(c-1) i.e (r-1)!/(c-1)!

-   Ex. 3rd element of 5th row -> c=2,r=4 -> (4\*3)/(2\*1) = 6.

---

# [119. Pascal's Triangle II](./119_pascalsTriangleII.md) 🌟

---

# [120. Triangle](./120_triangle.md) 🌟🌟

### Recursion(TLE)

-   If we are at the last row, return the element.
-   else try going down and right diagonally, take minimum of both.
-   return current element + min of both.

### Memoization (AC)

-   The recursive code gives TLE.
-   We can use memoization to solve this problem.
-   Take 2D array memo to store the result.

### Dynamic Programming (AC)

---

# [121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](./121_bestTimeToBuyAndSellStock.md) 🌟

### O(N^2) Time and O(1) Space

-   Brute force:
-   For each day, find the max profit that can be made by buying at that day and selling at the next j days.

### O(N) Time and O(N) Space

-   We try to sell stock each day.
-   For each day from last we store maximum stock price that will appear.
-   then for each day we calculate by selling the stock.

### O(N) Time and O(1) Space

-   We try to buy stock each day.
-   For each day we keep track of the minimum price of the stock that appeared before it.
-   if todays stock price is minimum we will update it.
-   return max profit.

### Optimized inner loop : 33% less time.

-   If the price of the stock that day less than minimum price so far then there is no chance to get profit so we only update minimum price.
-   else we can get profit, update maxProfit.

---

# [122. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock II](./122_bestTimeToBuySellStockII.md) 🌟🌟

### Greedy - O(N) Time O(1) space (Valley-peak approach)

-   O(2^N) and O(N^2) approaches
-   For each time at lowest cost(valley) we buy stock and at highest cost(peak) we sell stock.
-   for each day we buy and on next day we sell, **If it is profitable**

### READ:

-   [✅ [Java] Simple & Clean DP solutions for all 6 Buy & Sell Stock questions on LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/discuss/1569081/Java-Simple-and-Clean-DP-solutions-for-all-6-Buy-and-Sell-Stock-questions-on-LeetCode)

---

# [123. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock III](./123_bestTimeToBuySellStockIII.md) 🌟🌟🌟

### Recursive Solution (TLE)

-   For a day we have 2 choices, either can buy stock or sell stock.
-   We can do 2 total transactions(buy & sell) that means we have total 4 individual transactions(buy,sell,buy,sell).
-   if we have even transactions remaining then we buy stock else we sell stock.
-   for every day we return maximum of `(doing nothing, buy/sell stock)`.
-   At any point we finish all our transactions we return 0 also if we don't have days left from trading we return 0.
-   **TC: O(2^n)**
-   **SC: O(n)**

### Memoization (AC)

-   The recursive solution giving TLE because of so many subproblems calculated again and again.
-   We can remember the result of subproblems in dp array.
-   If we already calculated the result of subproblems then we can directly return the result, else we store new calculations in table.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(N)**

### Tabulation (AC)

-   Tabulation starts from base cases as its the bottom up approach.
-   from memoization solution we can write tabulation method easily
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(N)**

### Tabulation | space optimization (AC)

-   We can observe that, for any day we just need the answers of the next day, so we can reduce space complexity to O(1).
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [128. Longest Consecutive Sequence](./128_longestConsecutiveSequence.md) 🌟🌟

### Sorting Solution

-   **TC: O(NlogN)**
-   sort the sequence and find the consecutive subsequences and out of them return the length of the longest consecutive subsequence.

### Hash table O(N) Time solution

-   we create hash table of `nums`.
-   for every element we check if `num-1` is present or not.
-   if its not present then from `num` we count `num,num+1,num+2,...` consecutive elements.
-   when `num+..` not found we update our `ans`.
-   `return ans`.

---

# [129. Sum Root to Leaf Numbers](./129_sumRootToLeafNumbers.md) 🌟🌟

### O(N) Time recursive

-   We recursively traverse to the all leaf node.
-   Multiply val by 10 and add curr val in it.
-   if both left and right child is null, we add the current node value to the sum.
-   else recurse for left anf right subtree.
-   Stack can grow upto the height of the tree so that we can explore the path from root to leaf node.
-   Thus, **Space Complexity = O(Height of the tree)**
-   **Time Complexity:O(N)** --> All Nodes will be visited once.

### Useful Comment:

1. List of problems you need to master the concept :
    - [104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-depth-of-binary-tree/)
    - [110. Balanced Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/balanced-binary-tree/)
    - [111. Minimum Depth of Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-depth-of-binary-tree/)
    - [112. Path Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/path-sum/)
    - [113. Path Sum II](https://leetcode.com/problems/path-sum-ii/)
    - [124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum/)
    - [257. Binary Tree Paths](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-paths/)
    - [437. Path Sum III](https://leetcode.com/problems/path-sum-iii/)
    - [559. Maximum Depth of N-ary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-depth-of-n-ary-tree/)
    - [687. Longest Univalue Path](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-univalue-path/)
    - [988. Smallest String Starting From Leaf](https://leetcode.com/problems/smallest-string-starting-from-leaf/)
    - [1376. Time Needed to Inform All Employees](https://leetcode.com/problems/time-needed-to-inform-all-employees/)

If you find more problems, please comment it below :)

---

# [130. Surrounded Regions](./130_surroundedRegions.md) 🌟🌟

### DFS Approach complex

-   This [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZJViJEdtEc) explains both the approaches and code.
-   1st approach is complex while 2nd is easy.

### DFS Approach more efficient

-   Pick all O's from boundary (Top/Bottom row, Leftmost/Rightmost column)
-   Make all connected O's to some intermediate value (1 in my case).
-   Now remaining all O's are surrounded by X (otherwise they should have been converted to 1).
-   Convert remaining all O to X.
-   Revert all intermediate values. (1 to O).

-   **Time Complexity** - **O(m \* n)**
-   **Space Complexity** - **O(1)** if we ignore recursive stack calls else **O(m \* n)**

---

# [131. Palindrome Partitioning](./131_palindromePartitioning.md) 🌟🌟

### Backtracking solution

## <!-- TODO: code & Approach here -->

---

# [133. Clone Graph](./133_cloneGraph.md) 🌟🌟

### Solution

-   To clone a graph, you will need to traverse it.
-   Both BFS and DFS are for this purpose. But that is not all you need.
-   To clone a graph, you need to have a copy of each node and you need to avoid copying the same node for multiple times.
-   So you still need a mapping from an original node to its copy.

### DFS Solution

-   We need map to store copies of node.
-   We pass node and map in dfs function.
-   **DFS:**
-   if node is already visited, return the node
-   else create a new node and add it to the map
-   add all the neighbors of the node in the new node(add dfs)
-   return new node

### BFS Solution

-   create a map to store the cloned nodes & queue for bfs
-   create a new node with the same value as the original node
-   and add it to the map
-   **BFS:**
-   add all the neighbors of the node in the new node
-   if x is not in the map
-   add x->val in the map
-   add x to the queue
-   add x to the neighbors of the cloned node

---

# [134. Gas Station](./134_gasStation.md) 🌟🌟

### Greedy Solution

-   The sum of `gas[i] - cost[i]` (which is the current balance state) from start point should always be `>= 0`, otherwise, we can't move to the next point.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [136. Single Number](./136_singleNumber.md) 🌟

### Sorting array

### Using Map

### Using XOR (^)

-   XOR of same numbers is 0;
-   XOR of 0 with a number is the number;

---

# [138. Copy List with Random Pointer](./138_copyLinkedListWithRandomPointer.md) 🌟🌟

### Brute force

-   Take `hashmap<originalNode,copyNode>`
-   Traverse the linked list and create deep copy of the current node and push both in the hashmap.
-   Now traverse the linked list again and point deep copied node to the other deep copy nodes as present in original node.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(N)**

### Optimized

-   3 Step algorithm explained in code.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [141. Linked List Cycle](./141_linkedListCycle.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(N) space

-   If there is a cycle in given linked list then same node must appear more than once.
-   so, we create an unordered_set of nodes ands while traversing the list we check if the node is already present in the linked list.
-   if its present we return true else we insert it into the unordered_set.
-   finally after completing loop we return false. because there is no cycle.

### O(N) Time and O(1) space - floyd's cycle detection algorithm

-   Here fast pointer move 2 steps and slow pointer moves one step.
-   If they meet each other while traversing then loop that means there is a cycle else not.

---

# [142. Linked List Cycle II](./142_linkedListCycleII.md) 🌟🌟

### fast ans slow pointer Solution

-   We can use fast and slow pointer method to find the cycle.
-   We move fast by 2 steps and slow by 1 step.
-   When they both are equal, we have found the cycle, else we return null.
-   If cycle found set fast pointer to head again and move both by 1 step.
-   when both of then are equal, we have found the start of the cycle.
-   return the fast/slow pointer.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [143. Reorder List](./143_reorderList.md) 🌟🌟

### Most intuitive (Using stack)

-   To access the last node fist we can use the stack.
-   Count the length & push node in stack.
-   for half of the length we can just reorder the list.
    -   take the top of the stack.
    -   `nxt` is the next node of the currNode
    -   set `current node's next` to the `top of the stack`.
    -   set the `next of the stack's top` to `nxt`.
    -   finally set `curr` to `nxt`.
-   Set the `last node's next` to `NULL`.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(N)**

### Using Dequeue

-   Push all the nodes into a dequeue and popping alternatively from front and back while reordering the elements.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(N)**

---

# [144. Binary Tree Preorder Traversal](./144_binaryTreePreorderTraversal.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time O(N) space (function call stack), Recursive

-   if root is null, Return.
-   Visit the root (store data).
-   Traverse Left subtree.
-   Traverse Right subtree.

### O(N) Time and O(N) extra space

-   Create a vector to store values and stack for operations
-   if tree is empty, return empty vector
-   else push root into stack
-   while stack is not empty
    -   pop the top element from stack
    -   push the value of the popped element into vector
    -   we want left node to the top of stack, so we store it last so it appear on the top of stack
    -   if right node is not empty, push it into stack
    -   if left node is not empty, push it into stack

### Morris traversal - O(N) time and O(N) space.

**Explanation soon...**

## <!-- TODO: morris traversal -->

---

# [145. Binary Tree Postorder Traversal](./145_binaryTreePostorderTraversal.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(2N) space, Iterative

**NOTE:** _Here instead of ***2 Stack*** I have used ***1 Stack and 1 vector*** and reversed the vector at the end._

More detail explanation watch [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2YBhNLodD8Q) 4 min video.

### O(N) Time and O(N) Space, Iterative (1 stack)

**This is bit tricky.Dry run 2-3 trees to understand**
Watch [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NzIGLLwZBS8) Video.

### O(N) Time and O(1) Space, Morris traversal

**soon...**

## <!-- TODO: Morris traversal -->

---

# [148. Sort List](./148_sortList.md) 🌟🌟

### Intuitive Approach

-   Store all the values of the nodes in the array.
-   Sort the array.
-   Create new Linked List from the sorted array.

### merge sort

-   Same like array merge sort.

---

# [150. Evaluate Reverse Polish Notation](./150_evaluateReversePolishNotation.md) 🌟🌟

### Stack Solution

-   This is simple stack problem.
-   We use stack to store the numbers in the expression.
-   If we encounter an operator, we pop the top two numbers 'b' and 'a' respectively(order matters for '-' and '/').
-   Then we calculate the result and push it back to the stack.
-   And if its number we simply push it to the stack.
-   Finally we return the top of the stack, which contains the result.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(N)**

---

# [152. Maximum Product Subarray](./152_maximumProductSubarray.md) 🌟🌟

### Brute Force

-   We want to find maximum product subarray, so we can just create all subarrays and find maximum product subarray among them.
-   **TC: O(N^2)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

### Kaden's algorithm

<!-- TODO: Explanation -->

-   **TC: O(n)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [155. Min Stack](./155_minStack.md) 🌟

### TIP

-   Solving a question to implement stack using stack is possible , but not a good idea.
-   you can use 2 vector, 1 vector, vector of pair or map to implement the stack.

### Time Complexity: O(1) for all the solutions.

### Space Complexity: Extra O(N) Space used.

### Using 2 Vectors

-   We maintain 2 vectors, 1 for stack implementation and another for min stack.push `INT_MAX` to min stack in declaration.
-   `push` operation:
    -   push element to stack.
    -   push min element to min stack.
-   `pop` operation:
    -   pop element from stack.
    -   pop min element from min stack.
-   `top` operation:
    -   return top element from stack.
-   `getMin` operation:
    -   return top element from min stack.

### Using 1 vector

-   Instead of 2 vectors, we can use 1 vector to implement the stack.
-   `push` operation:
    -   if minElement is greater or equal to val, push minElement to stack and update minElement to val.
    -   then push val in the stack.
-   `pop` operation:
    -   pop the top of the stack.
    -   if top is equal to minElement, minElement will be top(next top) of the stack and pop the top(next top) from stack.

### Using vector of pair

-   Self explanatory code

---

# [165. Compare Version Numbers](./165_compareVersionNumbers.md) 🌟🌟

### split and compare (two pass)

-   split both strings on '.' and store numbers in vectors.
-   compare each element and return the ans.
-   **TC: O(N)**, N=length of `max(version1, version2)`
-   **SC: O(N)**, N=length of `max(vector1, vector2)`

---

# [167. Two Sum II - Input array is sorted](./167_twoSumII_inputArrayIsSorted.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time 2-pointers solution

-   We maintain 2 pointers, one at the start and one at the end.
-   We iterate over the array.
    -   If Sum if equal to target, return the indices.
    -   else if sum is greater than target we decrement the end pointer.
    -   else we increment the start pointer.

---

# [169. Majority Element](./169_majorityElement.md) 🌟

### O(N^2) Brute force

-   For every number in array we count its occurrences.
-   If count is greater than n/2, then we return the number.

### O(N)Time with extra space

-   we Can take a vector or unordered_map to store the frequency of each element.
-   We traverse the hash map/ vector to find the n/2 frequency.
-   if we found we return the element.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC:O(N)/O(N^2)** - _Yes if we use unordered_map it's worst case time complexity is **O(N^2)**, which occurs when all elements are divisible by prime number and result in collision_. But if we use frequency vector it's worst case time complexity is **O(N)**.

### Moore's Voting Algorithm

-   **TC:O(N)**
-   **SC:O(1)**
-   We maintain 2 variables count and candidate.
-   We traverse the array and for every element we do following:
    -   If count is 0, then we set candidate as current element.
    -   If current element is same as candidate, then we increment count by 1.
    -   else we decrement count by 1.
-   return candidate.

---

# [171. Excel Sheet Column Number](./171_excelSheetColumnNumber.md) 🌟

### Intuitive Solution (AC)

-   We can observe that the number formed is like 26 base number system represented in capital letters.
-   We can for number with `char*26+carry` formula.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [188. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock IV](./188_bestTimeToBuyAndSellStockIV.md) 🌟🌟🌟

### Recursion (TLE)

-   for the i'th day if we are holding a stock we can either sell it or do nothing.
-   if we are not holding a stock we can either buy it or do nothing.
-   The base case arises when we completed all the transactions(k == 0) OR we are done for all days(i == prices.size()).

> Note that you could also set up the solution so that transactions are completed upon buying a stock instead.

### Memoization (AC)

-   In the recursive version, we have to calculate the same subproblem multiple times.
-   we can reduce the number of subproblems by storing the results of the subproblems.
-   we use 3D array to store the results.
-   **TC : O(N \* K)**
-   **SC : O(N \* K)**

### Tabulation (AC)

-   The recurrence relation is the same with top-down, but we need to be careful about how we configure our for loops.
-   The base cases are automatically handled because the dp array is initialized with all values set to 0.
-   For iteration direction and order, remember with bottom-up we start at the base cases.
-   Therefore we will start iterating from the end of the input and with only 1 transaction remaining.
-   **TC: O(N\*K)**, O(n\*k\*2)--> O(N\*K)
-   **SC: O(N\*K)**, O(n\*k\*2)--> O(N\*K)

---

# [189. Rotate Array](./189_rotateArray.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(N) space

-   Create new array
-   copy the original array
-   Rotate the array by (i+k)%n.

### O(N) Time and O(1) Space

-   k%=nums.size(), because if k>n so we need to do only k%n operations.
-   reverse the array.
-   reverse the first k elements.
-   reverse the rest of the array.

---

# [190. Reverse Bits](./190_reverseBits.md) 🌟

### Using lsb

-   `n&1` will give us lsb.
-   we will shift lsb to left by `31-i` bits and it will be our reverseLsb.
-   we will or reverseLsb with result.
-   shift n by 1 to right.
-   [Reference Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LJiMk8lPJNc)

---

# [191. Number of 1 Bits](./191_numberOf1Bits.md) 🌟

### Using \_\_builtin_popcount

### Using n=n&(n-1) trick

-   Each time of "n &= n - 1", we delete one '1' from n.

### READ:

-   [[Python] n & (n-1) trick + even faster, explained](<https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-1-bits/discuss/1044775/Python-n-and-(n-1)-trick-%2B-even-faster-explained>)
-   [Short code of C++, O(m) by time, m is the count of 1's, and another several method of O(1) time](<https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-1-bits/discuss/55120/Short-code-of-C%2B%2B-O(m)-by-time-m-is-the-count-of-1's-and-another-several-method-of-O(1)-time>)

---

# [198. House Robber](./198_houseRobber.md) 🌟🌟

### Dynamic Programming

-   We can rob current house or not rob the current house.
-   If we rob the current house then amount will be `current house amount + i-2th house amount`.
-   else the amount will be `i-1th house amount`.
-   we can choose whichever is maximum

### Reduced space complexity DP.

-   There are only two choices for the robber, either he rob the i the house or he don't.
-   So the maximum he can rob is `rob(i) = max(rob(i-1), rob(i-2) + nums[i])`
-   in the below code we store `rob(i-1)` in `prev1` and `rob(i-2)` in prev2.

# [199. Binary Tree Right Side View](./199_binaryTreeRightSideView.md) 🌟🌟

### This question is in continuation with **A general approach to level order traversal questions** series.

**Previous Questions**

1. [Binary tree level order traversal](./102_btLevelOrderTraversal.md)
2. [Binary tree level order traversal - II](./107_btLevelOrderTraversalII.md)
3. [Binary tree zig-zag level order traversal](./103_btZigzagLevelOrderTraversal.md)
4. [Average of levels](637_averageOfLevels.md)

-   Both solutions passed with 0ms runtime.

### Recursive Solution

-   Simple DFS with right node first.
-   if our level is same as result vector's size, then we push the value in the result vector.
-   Travel right first and then left.

### Iterative Solution

-   We push last element of queue in the result to get right side view.

---
