# Leetcode Problem 1000-1099

# [1004. Max Consecutive Ones III](./1004_maxConsecutiveOnesIII.md) 🌟🌟

### Sliding Window

-   If we think of the problem, we can see here we just need to get maximum window size, in which there are no more than k zeros.
-   so we start traversing and if we find 0 we increase 0 count.
-   if 0 count is greater than k, we start removing elements from left side of window, until 0 count is less than or equal to k.
-   we keep track of maximum window size.
-   Return the maximum window size.
-   **TC**: O(n)
-   **SC**: O(1)

---

# [1010. Pairs of Songs With Total Durations Divisible by 60](./1010_pairsOfSongsWithTotalDurationsDivisibleBy60.md) 🌟🌟

### Brute force (TLE)

-   We can find all the pairs from the time array which are divisible by `60`
-   **TC: O(N^2)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

### Hashing Solution

-   `t % 60` gets the remainder from `0 to 59`.
-   We _count the occurrence of each remainders_ in a _array/hashmap_ `mp`.
-   we want to know that, for each `t` in `time`,
-   how many `x` satisfy `(t + x) % 60 = 0`.
-   The straight forward idea is to take `x % 60 = 60 - (t % 60)`, which is valid for the most cases.
-   But, if `t % 60 = 0` then `x % 60` should be `0` instead of `60`.
-   there are two solutions to avoid this situation,
    -   `x % 60 = (60 - t % 60) % 60`,
    -   `x % 60 = (600 - t) % 60`.
-   **TC: O(N)**, Single for loop
-   **SC: O(N)**, for the extra space to store the remainders.

---

# [1029. Two City Scheduling](./1029_twoCityScheduling.md) 🌟🌟

### sorting + greedy solution

-   sort the costs by the difference between a and b.
-   add A's cost in first half and B's cost in second half.
-   return the ans.
-   **TC: O(nlogn)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [1041. Robot Bounded In Circle](./1041_robotBoundedInCircle.md) 🌟🌟

### Simulation

-   We can simulate the robots movement 4 times and check if it reaches to same location(0,0), if it does return true, else false.
    **or**
-   we can simulate the process 1 time and check if it reaches to same location(0,0) or it changed its directions, if it does return true, else false.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(1)**

---

# [1081. Smallest Subsequence of Distinct Characters](./1081_smallestSubsequenceOfDistinctCharacters.md) 🌟🌟

---

# [1094. Car Pooling](./1094_carPooling.md) 🌟🌟

### Approach

-   for every trip we add the passengers in the car from destination and drop them off to the destination.
-   After these actions we check in our stops array(hashmap) if the car has enough empty seats.
-   If it does return true, else we return false.

---
