# Leetcode Problem 1700-1799

# [1710. Maximum Units on a Truck](./1710_maximumUnitsOnATruck.md) 🌟

### Greedy

-   It is a greedy problem.
-   We just choose the box with the largest number of units per box.
-   We keep adding boxes and **units\*boxes** until the total number of boxes on the truck is greater than truckSize.
-   finally, if we cannot take all boxes we take remaining required number of boxes and stop there.
-   Return the count of total units.
-   **TC:O(N log N)**
-   **SC:O(1)**

---

# [1732. Find the Highest Altitude](./1732_findHighestAltitude.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(1) Space solution

-   Start from 0, add each altitude and store max altitude.

---

# [1770. Maximum Score from Performing Multiplication Operations](./1770_maxScoreForMultiplicationOperation.md) 🌟🌟

### Recursion (TLE)

-   A **greedy solution** where for every index in multipliers vector you would choose the **first** or **last** one from the nums vector and then multiply it and keep on adding it to the sum.
-   **This is not a correct solution** as it fails when their are uneven number of +ve and -ve values in both vector.
-   Thus a recursive solution is required where all the possible values of choosing the leftmost num or rightmost num in nums vector are computed.Below is the implementation.
-   **TC: O(2^N)**

### Memoization (Top-Down) (AC)

-   As we have a correct recursive code at hand, 90% of our Dynamic Programming solution is DONE.
-   We just have to memorize the recursive code into a 2-D array of (Size of nums) X (Size of multipliers) as its changing variables.
-   We initialize the 2-D array with -1, and keep on updating the smaller sub-solutions which is the maximum of choosing answer from leftmost or rightmost in nums vector.
-   If during a pass we find some sub-problem is already present, return the answer.
-   **TC: O(2\*m^2)**, where `m<=10^3`
-   **SC: O(m^2)**

### Tabulation (Bottom-Up) (AC-fastest)

-   We can convert the top-down approach to the bottom-up approach and hence reduce the recursive stack space.
-   **TC: O(2\*m^2)**, where `m<=10^3`
-   **SC: O(m^2)**

### MUST READ

-   [[Java/C++/Python 3] Top Down DP - O(m^2) - Clean & Concise](<https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-score-from-performing-multiplication-operations/discuss/1075469/JavaC%2B%2BPython-3-Top-Down-DP-O(m2)-Clean-and-Concise>)
-   [C++ DP (SIMPLEST TO UNDERSTAND) -> Recursive to Memoization -> Complete EXPLANATION](<https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-score-from-performing-multiplication-operations/discuss/1078881/C%2B%2B-DP-(SIMPLEST-TO-UNDERSTAND)-greater-Recursive-to-Memorisation-greater-Complete-EXPLANATION>)

---

# [1773. Count Items Matching a Rule](./1773_countItemsMatchingARule.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(1) Space solution

-   Implementation.

---
