# Leetcode Problem 600-699

# [605. Can Place Flowers](./605_canPlaceFlowers.md) 🌟

---

# [617. Merge Two Binary Trees](./617_mergeTwoBinaryTrees.md) 🌟

### DFS - Recursive

-   if both nodes are null returns null.
-   if one of the node null, return the other node.
-   else Create new node with value = t1->val+t2->val.
-   set new nodes left = merge(t1->left, t2->left)
-   set new nodes right = merge(t1->right, t2->right)
-   return new node;

**Time complexity**: **O(n)**. A total of n nodes need to be traversed. Here, n represents the minimum number of nodes from the two given trees.
**Space complexity**: **O(n)**. The depth of the recursion tree can go upto n in the case of a skewed tree. In average case, depth will be **O(log n)**.

### BFS - Iterative

-   Base condition as in recursion
-   Create 2 queues for BFS and push root nodes in them.
-   While both queues are not empty
    -   Store the front nodes and Pop from both queues
    -   Add value of 2nd node in 1st
    -   if node1's left is null and node2's left is not null, then add node1's left to node2's left
    -   else if both's left not null then push them in respective queues
    -   if node1's right is null and node2's right is not null, then add node1's right to node2's right
    -   else if both's right not null then push them in respective queues.

**Time complexity**: **O(n)**. A total of n nodes need to be traversed. Here, n represents the minimum number of nodes from the two given trees.
**Space complexity**: **O(n)**. The size of queue can go upto n in the case of a skewed tree.

### MUST READ:

-   [~100.00% fast in run-time and memory Recursive/Iterative/BFS/DFS](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-binary-trees/discuss/588123/~100.00-fast-in-run-time-and-memory-RecursiveIterativeBFSDFS)

---

# [637. Average of Levels in Binary Tree](./637_averageOfLevels.md) 🌟

### This question is in continuation with **A general approach to level order traversal questions** series.

**Previous Questions**

1. [Binary tree level order traversal](./102_btLevelOrderTraversal.md)
2. [Binary tree level order traversal - II](./107_btLevelOrderTraversalII.md)
3. [Binary tree zig-zag level order traversal](./103_btZigzagLevelOrderTraversal.md)

### Recursive Solution

-   Here we need to keep track of the sum of level and count of nodes so we can calculate the average.
-   On every level we increment the level count and add the value of the node to the sum.
-   If we encounter new level (`level==levelSum.size()`) we push new values(0.0) in the sum and count vectors.
-   We do it recursively for left and right subtrees with increasing level count.
-   Finally we can calculate average by dividing sum by count for each list.

### Iterative Solution

-   This solution is so same as the first question of level order traversal.
-   Here we just keep track of sum at current level instead of pushing node in level vector which we did in first question.
-   At last we divide sum by size of the queue (i.e. count of nodes in current level).

### Iterative Solution

-   Converted recursive solution to iterative.
-   This solution involves 2 extra vectors which add up to the our additional use space.

---

# [653. Two Sum IV - Input is a BST](./653_twoSumIV.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(N) space

-   This method also works for those who are not BSTs.
-   The idea is to use a hashtable to save the values of the nodes in the BST. Each time when we insert the value of a new node into the hashtable, we check if the hashtable contains k - node.val.

### O(N) Time and O(N) space

-   The idea is to use a sorted array to save the values of the nodes in the BST by using an inorder traversal.
-   Then, we use two pointers which begins from the start and end of the array to find if there is a sum k.

### O(hn) Time and O(h) space

-   `h` is the height of the tree, which is `log n` at best case, and `n` at worst case.
-   The idea is to use binary search method.
-   For each node, we check if k - node.val exists in this BST.

---

# [662. Maximum Width of Binary Tree](662_maxWidthOfBinaryTree.md) 🌟🌟

### BFS

<!-- TODO: Explanation soon... -->

### DFS

-   Int will give integer overflow.
<!-- TODO: Explanation soon... -->

---

# [668. Kth Smallest Number in Multiplication Table](./668_kthSmallestNumberInMultiplicationTable.md) 🌟🌟🌟

### Brute Force

-   We create a 2D matrix of multiplication table then convert it to a 1D array.
-   We sort the array and return the `k`th element.
-   **TC: O(N^2)**
-   **SC: O(M\*N)+O(M+N)**- For extra 2D and 1D arrays.

### Brute force with reduced space

-   Instead of creating a 2D array, we can create a 1D array of size `m+n` and fill it with the multiplication table.
-   Then We sort the array and return the `k`th element.
-   **TC: O(N^2)**
-   **SC: O(M+N)**- For 1D array.

## <!-- TODO: Add explanation -->

---

# [682. Baseball Game](./682_baseballGame.md) 🌟🌟

### Stack Solution

-   Simple simulation using stack.

---

# [695. Max Area of Island](./695_maxAreaOfIsland.md) 🌟🌟

### DFS - Recursive

-   For each cell we check, if it is 1, then we call a dsf on it

-   **DFS Function:**

    -   we pass grid, i and j in dfs.
    -   if the cell is valid we call dfs on its four sides.

-   **Complexity:**

    -   Time: **O(M \* N)**, where M is number of rows, N is number of columns in the grid.
    -   Space: **O(M \* N)**, the space used by the depth stack during our recursion, in worst case is **O(M \* N)**.

### BFS - Iterative

-   For each cell we check, if it is 1,then we call a **bsf** on it

-   **BFS Function**

    -   We use q for bfs and push the first pair of i&j in q
    -   While q is not empty
    -   for top of the queue, we go on four directions and set `grid[nr][nc]=0` and increase the area count.
    -   return the area.

-   **Complexity:**

    -   Time: **O(M \* N)**, where M is number of rows, N is number of columns in the grid.
    -   Space: **O(M \* N)**, the space used by the queue in bfs, in worst case is **O(M \* N)**, can check this discussion:[stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/50912382/4084297)

---
