# Leetcode Problem 900-999

# [931. Minimum Falling Path Sum](./931_minimumFallingPathSum.md) 🌟🌟

### Recursion (TLE)

-   For an element we can go down, right diagonal, or left diagonal, we will take minimum of those 3 and add with current element.
-   The base case here is: If we reach to last row, we will return the current element.
-   Also we have to check if the element is out of bound, if it is then return `INT_MAX`, because we are taking minimum element.

### Memoization (AC)

-   The recursive solution calculate same subproblem multiple times.
-   we can use memoization table to store the results of the subproblems.
-   If the subproblem is already calculated then return it else calculate and store it.
-   **TC: O(m\*n)**
-   **SC: O(m\*n)**

### Tabulation (AC)

-   we fill the first row with original values.
-   then we fill rest as:
    -   for first col we take `min(up,upRightDig) + currElem`
    -   for last col we take `min(up,upLeftDig) + currElem`
    -   for all other cols we take `min(up,upLeftDig,upRightDig) + currElem`
-   Then we find the min of the last row.
-   **TC: O(m\*n)**
-   **SC: O(m\*n)**

---

# [938. Range Sum of BST](./938_rangeSumOfBst.md) 🌟

### Traversal Approaches

-   We can solve this problem with any of the traversal for the tree.
-   We just need to check for the condition of the node value and then add the value to the sum.

### BST Traversal

-   We can use BST properties and avoid extra recursive calls.
-   **TC: O(N)**, N is number of nodes in the tree.
-   **SC: O(h)**, h is the height of the tree.

---

# [946. Validate Stack Sequences](./946_validateStackSequences.md) 🌟🌟

---

# [977. Squares of a Sorted Array](./977_squaresOfASortedArray.md) 🌟

### O(N*log*N) Time solution

-   Create new array and push_back squares of each element in it.
-   Sort the new array.
-   Return the new array.

### O(N) Time solution

-   We use two pointer method to solve this problem.
-   set two array l=0 and r=arr.size()-1.
-   traverse through the array and set max abs values square at last position.
-   return the array.

---

# [980. Unique Paths III](./980_uniquePathsIII.md) 🌟🌟🌟

### DFS + Backtracking

-   Below solution is explained [in this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XNKCkX_tHhM) also on must read no-1.
-   We don't need zero++ for backtracking, because it is local variable.

### MUST READ

-   [Java Easy Solution || DFS + Backtracking || Explanation (Simplified)](<https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-paths-iii/discuss/1553873/Java-Easy-Solution-oror-DFS-%2B-Backtracking-oror-Explanation-(Simplified)>)
-   [C++ Simple and Clean DFS Solution, Explained, 0ms Faster than 100%](https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-paths-iii/discuss/1553805/C%2B%2B-Simple-and-Clean-DFS-Solution-Explained-0ms-Faster-than-100)

---

# [986. Interval List Intersections](./986_intervalListIntersections.md) 🌟🌟

### 2-pointer Solution

-   [[Python] Two Pointer Approach + Thinking Process Diagrams](https://leetcode.com/problems/interval-list-intersections/discuss/647482/Python-Two-Pointer-Approach-%2B-Thinking-Process-Diagrams)
<!-- TODO: Add explanation -->

---

# [989. Add to Array-Form of Integer](./989_addToArrayFormOfInteger.md) 🌟

### O(N) Time and O(1) Space

-   We use k itself as carry.
-   From last to first we fill array with addition and mod.
-   If after loop, k have some carry we insert k to the start of array until it becomes 0.

---

# [991. Broken Calculator](./991_brokenCalculator.md) 🌟🌟

### Greedy Solution

-   Very intuitive solution. we can just think reverse of the problem statement.
-   we will start from target and divide it when it is even else add one init, until target is greater than the starting value.
-   count the total number of times we have to do so.
-   return count + (startValue - target).
-   **TC: O(log target)**
-   **TC: O(1)**

---

# [994. Rotting Oranges](./994_rotatingOranges.md) 🌟🌟

### BFS solution

-   simple application of bfs.
-   Watch [Striver's short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pUAPcVlHLKA) for better explanation.
-   **Time complexity: O(M\*N)**

---

# [997. Find the Town Judge](./997_findTheTownJudge.md) 🌟

### Most intuitive

-   There are 2 main conditions for the town judge if it exists.
    -   1. The town judge trusts no one.
    -   2. Everyone (except the town judge)(n-1 people) trusts the town judge.
-   So we can build trusts array in which we store how many person , the current person trusts.
-   also we can build trusted array in which we store the current person is trusted by how many people.
-   So the answer will be simple, if any person has `trusts count == 0` and `trusted count == n-1`(everyone except town judge), then it is the town judge.else we return -1.
-   **TC: O(N)**
-   **SC: O(N)**, 2 Extra vectors, We can also take vector of pairs

---
